---
title: "For Employers"
description: "For Employers"
lead: "Who I Am as a Potential Employee"
date: 2020-10-06T08:48:57+00:00
lastmod: 2020-10-06T08:48:57+00:00
draft: false
images: []
weight: 300
toc: true
url: "/employers"
---

You are viewing this page as my potential employer. Below I provide sections tailored specifically to your role in the recruiting process.

## For Recruiters and Human Resources

Education: Georgia Institute of Technology, Master in Computer Science, 3.9 GPA

Experience: 8 years in Fintech in Manhattan.

Tech stack: Kotlin, Java, Android, Jetpack Compose, Gradle, Firebase Firestore, Firebase Auth, NoSQL, SQL, API, MVVM, Github, Github Pages, Github Actions, Google Play Store Console.

Location preference: Remote or in person in Las Vegas. Unfortunately I am unable to relocate.

Immigration status: I am a permanent resident in the United States, which allows me to work without restriction in the US for any employer except businesses that are or deal directly with the federal government.

Desired compensation: commensurate with the effort and expertise required of me.

## For Software Engineers and Teammates

While I have written in a few other languages, I chose Kotlin as my primary "get good" language because I believe (1) it is materially better than Java and (2) its interoperability with Java and Google's fortifying position will give it a long life.

My frontend work is done in Jetpack Compose, which is a relatively new declarative Android UI library. I also use the prebuilt Material3 components within Jetpack Compose. Pattern-wise I found reactive programming with Kotlin flows most ergonomic.

I have used numerous backends (a term I use loosely here to mainly indicate data sources). At the moment I am madly in love with the NoSQL database from Firebase Firestore likely because the usage bill has not hit me. In the past I have worked with MySQL, Microsoft Access, and various APIs.

In the modern Android world the MVVM pattern is practically required. Additionally, I use Clean on top of it. I find Clean provides better separation of concerns without introducing (much) boilerplate. As the complexity of my app grows, I have come to appreciate it.

At the moment I use some DevOps practice. Although to be quite frank this is a fairly new area for me. For instance, this website you are seeing is a static site generated by Hugo from a branch in my repo using Github Actions and deployed directly onto Github Pages. As of the writing of this memo, I am exploring options to automate my app deployment, which is done painfully manually at the moment.

The main page of this website contains the project I have been working on in case you want to check it out. It tries to solve the same problem as Splitwise using an arguably different approach.

## My Background

It is my understanding that a well-organized development team cares little about a teammate's history. As they say: "So long as you have the chops, you got the job." I also appreciate that some teammates may want to know a little more about my background for a cultural fit. This section caters to that particular purpose.

### Finance Life

I started my career as a hedge fund analyst in Manhattan. Unlike most other new hires in the firm, I was not your typical "finance bro" type and mostly avoided lavish company parties if at all possible. At work I found solace in nerdy stuff: from writing simple data ingestion scripts to orchestrating a local-to-cloud services migration. By the time I left the company I made Principal (which was the shortest in the firm) and was in charge of the firm's software and infrastructure needs.

### Georgia Tech

After my departure from the hedge fund I completed Georgia Tech's master program in Computer Science. I wanted to indulge in my computer interests and needed the diploma validation for future employers. I chose the Computing Systems specialization and achieved a 3.9 GPA. I would not hesitate to say that the vast majority of the skills I gained from Georgia Tech are likely not conducive to being a productive employee. I nevertheless enjoyed my tutelage tremendously. The classes I enjoyed the most happened to be the most challenging for me: specifically writing a multithreading program in C in Intro to OS and learning processor components in High Performance Computing Architecture.

### Personal Project

After GaTech I wanted to give myself a challenging personal project to be placed on the marketplace and personally experience the entirety of a product lifecycle to the fullest possible extent. I wanted to see if I have the technical knowhow to make the app function. I wanted to see if I have the perseverance to see to its publication. I wanted to see if I have the business acumen to package and market the product. I wanted to see if I can keep up with continuous improvement of the app after publication. I wanted to say: so far it's working so well.

### Hobbies

The outdoors: While I am no Bear Grylls, I very much enjoy nature. Physical exertion is just a price I have to pay to gaze upon breathtaking vistas. My partner and I moved to Vegas in no small part because of this: the city is within driving distance to 7 national parks!

Video games: I grew up playing World of Warcraft but stopped at Legion when Blizzard began suffocating the franchise. Now I play Overwatch 2 casually with friends and secretly sneak in a game of Bloons TD 6 when nobody is watching. There was a time when I was very much into mentally-taxing management games such as the Anno series, Civilization, and Kerbal Space Program. But now they are effectively replaced by my personal project and LeetCode.

Systems stuff: I enjoy having a needlessly complicated home lab environment. I use pfSense for routing, Ubiquiti for switching, Unraid for data, Docker containers for home services (e.g., Plex). I have also automated the house with Home Assistant controlling a wide variety of devices including Lutron RA2, Shelley Automation, and numerous Z-Wave and Zigbee products.
